Nigeria has lifted its ban on Twitter - seven months after clamping down on the social networking site. Nigeria's government suspended Twitter last June after the company deleted a tweet by President Muhammadu Buhari about punishing regional secessionists. Authorities accused the social media firm of siding with the secessionists. But the government said it was reversing the ban after Twitter agreed to conditions including opening a local office in Nigeria. According to the Nigerian government, Twitter has agreed to: Twitter did not say if it had agreed to the government demands but tweeted that it was "pleased" to be restored in the country and was "deeply committed to Nigeria". The move allows millions of people in Africa's most populous nation to use the platform again. Many Nigerians had continued to access the site after the suspension using virtual private networks (VPNs) but most corporate organisations, including many media outfits, had obeyed the government's order. Analysts believe the ban has cost the Nigerian economy millions of dollars, especially the small businesses which use the platform to reach their customers. The move last year by Nigeria's government sparked an international outcry over freedom of speech. The social media company's decision to register itself in the country showed it was committed to Nigeria, the country's information technology development agency said. The government had ordered internet providers to block Twitter, alleging it was being used to undermine "Nigeria's corporate existence" through the spreading of fake news that could potentially have "violent consequences". This came after Twitter removed President Buhari's post referring to the 1967-70 Nigerian Civil War and to treating "those misbehaving today" in "the language they will understand". Twitter is popular with many Nigerians, and the platform has been used as a mobilising tool. Activists used it to rally support during protests against police brutality under the hashtag #EndSars, which gained global attention. Despite the ban many Nigerians continued to tweet and some are now taking time to recognise the VPNs that enabled them to do so. User Ugegbe tweeted that she didn't want to delete her VPN, as it would feel like a betrayal. Analysis by Nduka Orjinmo, BBC News, Abuja Many Nigerians believe that the real reason why the ban has been lifted now is that politicking for next year's general elections has begun. Although campaign has not officially started, politicians know what a force Nigeria Twitter is, especially with young voters, many of whom continued to tweet with VPNs (Virtual Private Networks). Other than that, it is hard to see why the government has chosen now to lift the ban, Twitter has met none of the conditions set by Nigeria when negotiations began about six months ago. It has not opened a local office or appointed a Nigerian representative but its services have been restored on "promises" that the company will do those, and other government demands, by the end of March. Some of those conditions, such as paying local taxes might be hard to fulfil. Many are glad that the seven-month ban is now lifted but there are no real winners here. The ban would have also affected Twitter's revenues in Nigeria and the company is perhaps now wiser about its activities in certain parts of the world, but many feel that the ban was unnecessary and was largely done to assuage President Muhammadu Buhari after his tweet was deleted. Unpicking Twitter boss's passion for Nigeria Viewpoint: Why Twitter got it wrong in Nigeria Why Nigerians risked arrest to tweet